Okay, so got past the first gotcha.
Here is another gotcha for you on the server side of things.
I've added in a custom set of roots,
so I've added in server dot use and require roots,
okay, and the roots file is an express router,
so I require express, create a router,
pulling in some data, and I'm responding
to an adjacent format against these URLs,
okay, so this would be the URLs
that I've made requested against, right,
so here instead of local hosts.
3,001, it could be 3,000,
what's the URL look like, slug right there,
so we can do this, this is the idea, okay?
So you're with me so far, hopefully,
I guess video is one way, but still.
And when I click on a link, it goes a bit doolally.
So let's try and go to the root.
Let's fix that, oops, pages, index.
And what I want to show you is really
just a kind of bad pattern, rather.
Oh gosh, let's put, let's just hog credit for the moment,
local host 3,000, so the reason we're seeing,
actually let me just go back to that
to explain what you're seeing there.
The reason you're seeing this
only absolute URLs are supported,
is because in the browser it understands
that your own is relative to the URL here,
but on the server side it does not know,
it has no frame of reference so when you do a request
for schedule it doesn't know what the URL to schedule is.
So, you know, we need to add this in fully,
that one just instantly works.
So the schedule works but the individual page doesn't work.
And there's actually a bug in my server routing,
right, so this is, this bit of code is wrong.
So, if I was developing me router,
what I would normally do with an express application
is run nodemon, so instead of npm run dev,
I would do nodemon dash X, npm run dev.
Okay, so the problem with this,
is that the whole process is pretty slow.
So you can see it kind of refreshing in the background,
if I just move this over to the side,
and just do console dot log.
You can see it going a bit bommy here,
I think actually it's because it's watching
the next directory, ignore dot next.
So it's ready, pings.
Gosh.
Anyway, it's nodemon doesn't work well with,
with next because this here, this is the amount of time
it's taking to boot the server back up,
and only at that point is it ready.
And the whole point of something like nodemon,
is that as soon as you make the change it just,
it restarts really quickly.
And because next takes a little time to boot,
and it's not really helping us,
so what I do instead is...
I use node to run my server, okay,
so my wherever it is, server, okay.
And I actually use a different process
to run these roots and develop these roots,
so I have a command line tool called express router cli
which gives you like an executable called router,
so it's a bit easier to type,
and you just point that router to your,
route your express route, and it will mount those routes
and watch them for changes.
The only thing is we now need to point
to different ports again, so we're going to run
on port 3,001 but it is going to be running,
from this code so router, it's a bit confusing,
port is the port that we're going to run on,
router is the, this thing, express router cli,
and then this is the file that has my routes in it,
so I'm going to run that.
It's mounted on port 3,001 as requested,
if that particular port is busy,
it will mount on the next port available,
it adds CORS support by default and it gives me kind of like
it just watches over those files,
and watches all the dependencies,
and reloads the entire website,
kind of similar to nodemon, but only for express routes.
So, let's put these back in,
and if we have a look at the server,
where is it, it's here, so we've still got an error.
Okay, so if we, excuse me, if we take that code,
and where was the arrow, this was the arrow right?
So, it's supposed to be session, session dot slug,
I'm just going to hit save, and if we go back to my terminal
just see that it, yeah, reload due to change in index routes
and I if I just hit refresh here, it's fixed.
Although, oh, it's fixed but I remember,
here we go, session...
We're returning an actual object instead of the,
that array there we go.
So, really the two things are nodemon is not the right tool
for restarting next because next takes so long
to get going, to get kind of prepared.
It's not that next is particularly slow,
it's just that rebooting it over and over again is slow.
So what I use instead is I put my routes into one place,
and these can be in sub directories,
and I use this tool, okay, so this router tool,
to just watch those routes and basically request these,
during development and then when I get into production,
it switches it into using the routes
that hang off the actual server
instead of hitting 3,001, it will hit 3,000,
or whatever the actual port is,
which segues nicely into how do we make this
an environment variable, so yeah,
let's have a look at that next.